Duty is sacrifice.
It eclipses all things.
even blood.
All men of honor
must pay its price.
The North owes a great duty
to the Seven Kingdoms.
One older than any oath.
Since the days
of the First Men.
we have stood as guardians
against the cold
and the dark.
Through its long tradition.
the Night's Watch
cultivated its strength
from doomed men
who had their life
as their only possession.
But my ancestor.
Torrhen Stark.
began a tradition
by making an offering
at the onset of winter:
one in 10 men
from our household
was to be chosen
to fortify the Watch.
This is not a sentence
but an honor.
A duty embraced by all
who serve the North.
Even by mine own kin.
The North must stand ready.
Winter is coming.
Coming?
What is this. then.
that falls from the skies
and shivers my bones?
This is only a late summer snow.
my prince.
In winter.
it will cover all you see.
and all memories
of warmth will be forgotten.
It pleases me to think
that over a century ago
our ancestors treated
in this very place.
The Conqueror
and the King in the North.
You. at least.
had the mercy
not to threaten me
with your dragon.
My prince.
- My lord.
M'lord.
Surely the great
Torrhen Stark
would've sooner died
than bent the knee.
Unless he believed
the Conqueror
could bring unity
to the Seven Kingdoms.
You are right
in that.
That unity is
now threatened.
The realm will soon
tear itself apart...
if men do not remember
the oath sworn
to King Viserys
and to his rightful heir.
Starks do not forget their oaths.
my prince.
But you must know
that my gaze is
forever torn between
north and south.
In winter.
my duty to the Wall is even more dire
than the one I owe
to King's Landing.
I need my men here.
Whilst your men
guard against
wildlings and weather.
the Hightowers plan
to usurp the throne.
If my mother is
to defend her claim
to hold the realm united.
she needs an army.
War is coming
to the whole
of the realm. my lord.
We cannot wage it
without the support of the North.
My father brought
King Jaehaerys
and Queen Alysanne
to see the Wall.
His Grace stood
at this very outlook
and watched
as their dragons.
the greatest power
in the world.
refused to cross it.
Do you think
my ancestors built
a 700-foot wall of ice
to keep out snow
and savages?
What does
it keep out?
Death.
I have thousands
of graybeards
who've already seen
too many winters.
They are...
well-honed.
So they're old?
I can ready them
to march at once.
If your graybeards
can fight.
the queen
will have them.
They will fight hard.
Like Northerners.
My lord?
A raven's arrived.
Urgent news
from Dragonstone.
Take your mount again.
We're flying out.
I alone patrol over
a hundred miles of open sea.
endlessly.
to hold the blockade.
Meleys must gorge
and rest. as must I.
- We're going to King's Landing.
- To what end?
Killing Vhagar.
I cannot face that
hoary old bitch alone.
With my dragon
and yours together.
we can kill Vhagar
and her rider.
Make it a son for a son.
- Was this the queen's command?
- The queen remains absent.
I should be
at Harrenhal bending knees.
but I must instead
remain here to wage her war.
Or perhaps. more simply.
to await her return.
She has been gone for days.
Too long. She is exposed.
- She is grieving.
- The mother grieves
as the queen
shirks her duties.
It was a raven that brought me news
of Laena's death.
I existed for weeks
in torment...
refusing to believe
what I'd been told.
It was only when
I saw my daughter's mortal remains
that I could begin
to mourn her.
A raven has told Rhaenyra
that her son is dead.
She needs to know it
for certain.
She was a fool
to go alone.
What if Aemond were
to happen upon her?
Then I would pity Aemond.
The queen was wise
to recuse herself.
She has not acted on the vengeful impulse
that others might have.
If you'd have acted
when you had the chance...
Aegon's line would
be extinguished.
And Luke
would be alive.
Fly with me.
- It is a command.
- Would that you were the king.
M'lord.
It's a marvel she was able to return
from the Stepstones at all.
Barely done.
but done.
Seven more ships put out to sea
this morn' to fortify the blockade.
The Gullet is vast.
and we're not like to have the numbers
to cover all
that open water.
I must have my ship back at sea
to lead the effort.
It'll be many weeks yet.
I'd wager.
But I'll have a word
with my brother...
to see what reinforcements
the shipwrights can muster.
The smithy delivered
this earlier.
M'lord?
I had this commissioned
for Prince Lucerys.
I was very sorry
to hear about your heir's death.
'Twas the blackest
of treacheries.
Pardon. m'lord.
if it'll please you. much to do.
They tell me that
you are the one
that dragged my body
out of the sea.
It was only
my duty.
I am indebted
to you. Alyn.
Mind your posts!
Keep your focus. men!
- Dragon!
Arm the scorpion!
Approaching
from the southeast!
Get around!
Scorpion ready!
- Halt!
Stand down.
it's Vhagar!
Stand down!
Standing down!
Where is Jaehaerys?
Attending his lessons.
And those are where?
What do you
need of him?
Taking him
to the small council.
He'll be king one day.
He must begin
his instruction.
What if he does not
want to be king?
Where is he?
The library.
You must not
interrupt his custom.
I'm afraid.
Don't be.
They'd be fools
to come with Vhagar protecting the city.
Not the dragons.
The rats.
The queen is
an enduring mystery...
is she not?
There's a chill
in the air.
Summer is well
and truly through.
We are expected at the small council.
Your Grace.
We cannot.
Again.
Yes. Your Grace.
If you wouldn't mind?
- Your Grace.
- Good day.
Hello! Jaehaerys must learn
the ways of the court
if he is to rule
one day.
Up we go.
Good morrow.
my lords.
Mother.
What news?
Our letters to the Vale
and to the North
continue to go unanswered.
Cunts.
The Stormlands should be ours
after Prince Aemond's
marriage pact
to the Lady
Floris Baratheon.
I anticipate their
sworn declaration.
My brother is raising
the strength of the West
to mass at the Golden Tooth.
but we...
Yeah. thank you.
my prince.
That's. that's
very helpful.
My nephew.
Lord Ormund.
musters his forces
to sally forth from Oldtown.
They expect
to march quickly.
meeting little resistance.
until they reach the Riverlands.
My letters to Rhaenyra.
Has there been any answer?
An apology
for her dead son?
None. Your Grace.
Between that
and their blockade of the Gullet.
we must presume
that the princess has refused
the offered terms.
and that war
is now inevitable.
- Na-na!
- Perhaps Your Grace might lend
- his voice to our outreach...
- Stop! Enough!
...in hopes that new terms
might. might be negotiated.
Release it at once!
Would someone please?
Is the heir to the throne
bothering you. Tyland?
No. No. no. not.
not in the least. Your Grace.
Because I think
he wants a ride.
- Your Grace.
- Uh. a ride?
A pony ride.
Wouldn't that be fun.
Jaehaerys?
Should the Master of Coin
be your royal steed?
Your Grace!
There are important
matters to discuss...
despite Sir Tyland's
interruptions.
Very well.
No time for amusements.
Tyland.
Your Grace.
Off you go. Jaehaerys.
Good boy.
Where were we?
Rhaenyra's blockade has
placed King's Landing under strain.
And those pressures
will multiply quickly.
Well. we should've just killed her
when we had the chance.
Regrettably. the opportunity
for surprise has been lost.
and with it. the chance to end
this conflict quickly.
We must play
the board before us.
If we are to break
the Sea Snake's blockade.
we will need to bolster both the Lannister
and Hightower navies.
We do have need
for a new Master of Ships.
We could offer the title
to the young Lord Dalton Greyjoy.
Aemond. What is
your business here?
The king summoned me.
You do not have a seat
at this council.
Aemond is my closest blood
and our best sword.
I welcome him.
Path to King's Landing
is through the Riverlands.
We must establish a toehold there.
at Harrenhal.
The Riverlords will
either declare for me.
or they will meet Vhagar
and Sunfyre together.
Ah. and-and we can burn the blockade
while we're at it.
- Rhaenyra has dragons as well.
- Mine are bigger.
If we lose the dragons to war.
there'll be no calling them back.
- We must proceed cautiously.
- No.
Fat. old Lord Tully will either raise my banner
or see his burn.
We should fly
to Riverrun.
You are the king.
Your Grace.
You must not put
yourself at risk.
And Vhagar is needed here
to deter Rhaenyra from attacking
in retribution
for the death of her son.
Errors were made in the hours following
King Viserys's death.
We mustn't
compound them.
You've already demonstrated
your might. Your Grace.
We must now favor patience and restraint.
I send ravens
by the hour.
Many and more houses
will declare for you in time.
History and precedent
will come to your side.
Good morrow.
Your Grace.
Lord Larys.
I had come earlier
to have a word
before the small
council convened.
but your handmaiden said
that you were indisposed.
What is it
you wish to discuss?
I have completed questioning
the whole of the castle staff.
They produced rather
interesting details.
but I am satisfied I have exposed
all who betrayed our trust.
And what of them?
They no longer
breathe our air.
I have chosen your
new staff personally.
St... Gi-Give me that.
Your Grace?
Just leave me.
Just le... Just le...
- It's a dragon wing!
- Let's have a look!
- It's a wing.
- Who cares what it is.
Dragon!
All hail King Aegon!
"Aegon the Magnanimous."
Second of His Name.
King of the Andals.
and the Rhoynar.
and the First Men.
Lord of the Seven Kingdoms.
and Protector of the Realm.
Hail King Aegon!
"The Magnanimous"?
Your Grace.
Let's have the first petition.
my good Lord Hand.
Good morrow.
my. uh. Your Grace.
It's alright.
There's no reason
to be nervous.
What's your name?
Gr... Uh. Jerard.
Your Grace.
Good morrow.
Jerard.
And how might your king
be of service?
'Tis my flock.
Uh. a-a-a tenth
of them taken by...
the Crown on...
on the cusp
of winter.
- If I'd had the time to plan...
- We should return them.
- Your Grace?
- Well. you need
your goats for the winter.
don't you?
- Sheep. Your-Your Grace.
- Sheep. even better.
I shall make your
flock of sheep whole.
We already made a promise
to all the Crownlands
that a tithing
of livestock
would be necessary
to sustain the dragons
for their
increased activity
and. pray not.
eventual fighting.
Right... Right.
Perhaps we could just return his sheep.
He came all this way.
If you return one herder's sheep.
Your Grace.
you will soon find them all at the foot
of your throne
expecting the same.
They won't know.
When the king speaks.
Your Grace. all hear it.
After further thought.
I have decided that
I cannot restore
your sheep.
If war were
to break out.
my dragons
will require feed.
Bring the next.
Salts always run scarce
on the road to winter.
Your Grace.
We rely on ships
from Essos
for our supply.
But now. with a blockade in place
and war threatening...
Yeah. that treasonous
blockade won't last long.
I plan to send Vhagar
to burn it to ash.
Bring the next.
Hugh. Your Grace.
The smiths
are all proud
to support Your Grace
against Rhaenyra.
But?
But...
iron costs have grown.
A lone scorpion
takes weeks to build.
To put it simply.
we are struggling.
If we could but have
the Crown's coin before we started work.
it would bring
great relief.
Not just to me.
but to all the smiths serving your cause.
You shall be paid
and paid well.
My army cannot win a war
without your weapons.
You should continue
their making.
Our victory depends
on the efforts of the smallfolk.
You have my most sincere
gratitude. Your Grace.
I'll hear
the next petition.
Your Grace. it filled my heart
to see you on the Iron Throne.
I was only a boy when Jaehaerys last graced the seat.
but you brought forth
memories of him.
and you have such a deft touch
with the smallfolk.
just as your father did.
Thank you. my lord.
I wonder.
do you have a moment for a quiet word?
It is the Hand's wont
to keep a firm grip on things.
Mm.
He controlled your father
the same way.
Viserys had a certain reputation
as being pliable.
I am aware.
I would think.
as we find ourselves
standing within a hair's
breadth of war.
that you would wish
to be viewed differently.
How?
Otto Hightower...
was your father's Hand.
Your Grace.
Daughter.
I requested
an audience hours ago.
There were
many petitions.
I find myself wondering...
do we pursue the same end?
I must admit. there are days
where I myself can't be sure.
I shall tell you mine.
It's victory.
And how would you
define "victory"?
Rhaenyra bending the knee
and Aegon sitting
the Iron Throne. in peace.
As Viserys wished.
Well. if that's how you describe it.
then we are aligned.
- Then be my ally.
- I am.
An ally would not
repeatedly cut my legs
from beneath me
at that table of men!
- I sit there and I feel your anger.
- Frustration.
These critical days
since Viserys's passing
- haven't gone to plan.
- That's not my fault.
My sons both see you
as the great example.
The Hand to three kings.
Aegon is ever-eager
to prove himself
and Aemond...
Aemond is angry.
Rhaenyra's son took his eye
and was never punished for it.
- What he did. however vicious...
- The caprice of youth.
I could only hope.
Aemond erred.
But he is fiercely loyal.
He wishes to please.
And Aegon
still heeds me.
In private.
at least.
But if you
undermine my voice.
both those boys
will grow deaf to it.
I hadn't seen it
that way.
We only need to mind Aegon
until the novelty
of rule is spent.
Once he tires of it.
you and I can steer our cause to victory.
A fine strategy. daughter.
But you must accept that the path
to victory now is one of violence.
I know it.
But that does not mean
it must be wanton.
No.
Prepare to be boarded!
By the order
of Lord Corlys Velaryon!
Search the hold for stowaways!
You.
When last we met.
there were two of you.
"The White Worm."
Did you think I would
wither in your absence?
I did not think you
would flower a traitor.
You speak of highborn games.
I am common-born.
How long have you been selling secrets
to Otto Hightower?
As long as he had gold
to pay for them.
Who sent you fleeing from King's Landing
in such disrepair. hm?
You put Aegon
on the throne.
That was
the Hightowers' conspiracy.
I merely profited
from knowing Aegon's movements.
But you delivered him.
He would've returned home eventually
for gold and for respite.
as he always does.
I simply... simply sped
the business along.
"Business" that ended with the theft
of the queen's throne
and the murder
of her son.
You only blame me
because your true enemies
are out of reach.
My arrangement
with the Hand
was purely
transactional.
I held no loyalty to him.
Certainly do not now.
Otto Hightower was to me
as I am to your noble ilk. fodder to be cast off.
What else do you know of him?
His plans?
Little and less.
I possess nothing
of value to you. Daemon.
Have her moved
to the cells.
She is to be treated
as a traitor to the crown.
Forgive me. my prince...
but the lady
speaks the truth.
- She was no agent of the Hightowers.
- What is it to you?
- A matter of honor.
- Was it honor that made you stand by and watch
as the Hightowers
usurped the throne?
You and your
traitorous twin.
No. my prince.
I'm shamed by it.
That's why I abandoned
the Kingsguard.
and my brother.
and came here.
I don't care.
Aegon was
in your grasp.
You should've
killed him yourself.
Arryk and I were named
to the Kingsguard at just 8 and 10.
And we swore
the same oath:
to defend the whole
of the royal family.
So what were we to do
when they turned against one another?
Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen.
the First of Her Name.
Queen of the Andals.
and the Rhoynar. and the First Men.
Lady of the Seven Kingdoms.
and Protector of the Realm.
Did you find
what you needed?
Your council stands
at the ready. Your Grace.
I will fly to Harrenhal
at your command
and set our toehold
in the Riverlands.
Your Grace.
my lord husband's blockade of the Gullet
moves into place.
All seaborne
travel and trade
to King's Landing
will soon be cut off.
I want Aemond Targaryen.
In your years
as a merchant of gossip.
you surely accumulated spies
within the Red Keep.
Servants who knew
the comings and goings.
Scheme with someone
else. Daemon.
I was once in your thrall.
but no longer.
A transaction. then.
Your knowledge in exchange
for your freedom.
Your Grace.
Lady Jeyne Arryn has
pledged her support
in exchange for a dragon
to guard the Vale.
And Lord Cregan Stark...
has promised 2.000 men...
Alyrie Florent.
Viserys Targaryen.
Lucerys Velaryon.
A tribute.
Commander?
Never gone for long.
I'm told you bear a mislike
for the Hightowers.
Fuck the Hightowers.
Keep walking.
Don't make trouble.
The White Worm said
you're one of
Aegon's ratcatchers.
You must be busy.
That castle positively crawls with them now.
I heard
the White Worm were dead.
Her ghost told me
you were a betting man.
- Fighting pits?
- Dogs... and bones.
How deep are
your debts?
I was also given to understand
that you possess
a unique knowledge
of the Red Keep.
Maegor's tunnels.
Great big
rat's nest. it is.
I know them better
than the shape of my own cock.
This is my friend.
Tonight. he's going
to be your friend.
You're to find and slay
the Prince Aemond Targaryen.
He has silver hair
and one eye.
Should be easy
enough to find.
But I understand
he's quite good in a fight.
You'll want
to take caution.
That's one half.
You'll get the other when it's done.
Alright.
What if we can't find him?
We've wasted precious days in this war
of quills and ravens.
Words are wind.
You should be leading the van.
and I should be flying
cover on Vhagar.
No castle would dare
to raise Rhaenyra's banner against us.
We would bring the whole
of the Crownlands to heel in weeks.
Well. mayhaps
we could petition the king.
privately.
to send us out.
Rosby and Stokeworth.
small castles right in the shadow
of King's Landing.
They would not want
us for enemies.
We could add their
levies to our own.
Our host growing
as we advance.
Uh. it is
a canny scheme.
But moot.
My brother is hostage
to my grandsire and mother.
and they tell him that a war of dragons
can yet be avoided.
'Tis inevitable.
They must see that.
Otto fears to upset
the order of things.
And Alicent
is simply...
angry.
- Angry?
- She blames me for starting this war
after she plotted with my father's council
to usurp his throne.
"Her Grace" speaks
with two tongues.
She has a gentle heart.
And Rhaenyra is
a cunning spider.
Long ago.
she drew Alicent into her web...
intoxicated her.
It is not
your mother's fault.
She holds love
for our enemy.
That makes her a fool.
Lord Hand.
Return to your post.
Lord Commander.
I must have a word
with the prince.
It would concern me.
grandson.
if plans were
being considered
beyond the ears
of your king and his Hand.
You have a zeal to act.
I understand.
I was young
once myself...
I only wish to serve
my king and my house.
You and Vhagar
are the greatest single
power in the realm.
If it wasn't obvious before.
it certainly is now.
But there are many
pieces at play here...
some of which
you can't yet see.
I promise you. Aemond.
you will have
all the vengeance
that you seek.
but you must keep a grip
on your impulses.
We both know that
your brother cannot.
Alright.
Take that.
Bring the dog.
I need to be a symbol
for the smallfolk.
- as well as the nobility.
- Wait.
You could always be
"Aegon the Strong."
My nephew's already
taken that one.
Well. which would Your Grace prefer?
- It's the king.
- To be loved or feared?
I need to be both.
My mother
and grandsire
mind me like some
helpless duckling.
Oh. well.
you're the king.
Who gives a shit
what they say?
My brother. at least.
knows his place.
He's as loyal as a hound.
I can set him and his dragon
on my foes at will.
- Keep your eyes down.
- I need a style that
demonstrates power
and commands respect.
Eh. no-no one knows
what "magnanimous" means.
You could be "Aegon the Generous" then.
- That would charm the smallfolk.
- I like that.
Is there more strong wine?
- "Aegon the Dragonheart."
- Better.
"Aegon the Dragoncock!"
Yes. yes!
Yeah.
the untamable beast!
How do we
get upstairs?
The royals
live up there.
Right.
Well. it's
off limits. it is.
Different group
of ratcatchers work the upstairs.
If we're to kill
a royal fucking prince.
where do you think
we're gonna find him?
I got you in the castle.
I thought the rest
was your bit.
I could end you
right here.
take the rest
of the gold meself.
I know a way upstairs.
I just don't know
my way 'round.
Show me.
Fuck off.
This way.
The royals live
on this level.
No one's here.
We need to keep looking.
I've told ya.
I'm not supposed to be up here.
Did you not
hear the prince?
No head... no gold.
- Set a trap.
- Huh?
- For appearances.
- Oh.
I'll search
the next room.
For the rats.
Quiet.
Stay still.
Who the fuck is she?
She's the queen. she is.
"A son for a son."
he said.
Well. does she look like
a fucking son to you?
Over there.
We need to get
our head and get out.
Shh.
They both look the same.
Which one's the boy?
- Maybe that one.
- Well. look for a cock.
The mother knows.
Do anything
but what I ask.
and I'll bleed
the whole lot of ya.
Shh.
Which?
I have a necklace.
It's of great value.
That's not a son.
N...
Wait.
It's the other one. She's not gonna give up
the king's heir that easy.
No.
She's telling true.
Hold him down.
No.
Helaena!
What's happened?
They killed the boy.